So where are we at?
How far have we got along this journey?
We have looked at pretty much
everything that's involved in
identifying the people
that we wanna contact.
We've identified how we can
go about contacting them.
We've made initial contact.
We've done a survey.
We've put together a report.
Everything's looking great and wonderful,
but we still don't have a mailing list.
We don't have a group of people
that we can talk to regularly.
We've kind of taken a chance and
contacted some people fairly cold,
but they haven't given us their permission
to talk to them on an ongoing basis.
And we really need that because we don't
wanna be emailing people all the time
without their permission.
So, why and
how do we gain that permission?
All right, so first off,
why is ongoing communication so important?
Why does it matter so much?
Well, our survey and report will
have got us on our audience's radar,
but we need to stay on that
radar really to give us a chance
to build credibility in
the minds of our audience.
We need to be able to show
them how great we are, okay?
Then you can tell somebody,
yeah, I'm an amazing developer,
I do all this great work or whatever.
But that is not as valuable as them
discovering that from sales based on what
they've learned about you, what they've
heard about you, what they've read,
that you've said, those kinds of things.
So it's essential as well
that we stay front and
center in people's minds so
that when they need our services we're
instantly their preferred supplier,
all right?
So it's those two things that we need
to stay front and center in the minds,
we need to build credibility.
And that's where regular contact
via email can provide that.
That's why on my website,
at the bottom of every single page,
you've got a call to action to
sign up to my mailing list,
cuz once I've got you on my mailing list,
I've gotcha.
That's it, you are at my mercy.
So how do we gain
the permission that we need?
Well, there are several
steps involved in this, and
that will change a little
bit over time as well.
So the number one thing that we wanna do
is we wanna promote the report, okay?
So we're gonna contact our audience and
tell them about the report.
And we're also gonna reach out to those
influencers, and we're also gonna use some
other promotion techniques that
I'm gonna get into in a moment.
In addition to that, alongside the report,
we probably want to offer a short email
course that dives a little bit deeper into
the issues that are found in the report.
Now, don't worry, I know that sounds
like a lot more extra work, but
it really isn't.
It's regurgitating what's in the report
and adding a bit more detail.
So it's not overly taxing,
don't worry about it.
And we're gonna use that really
as the kind of next step.
Okay, so you've downloaded the report.
Now, you get these kind of
series of introductory emails.
And then once you've had that emails, then
you're going on to that ongoing advice.
So after people finish the course,
they will continue to hear from
you via monthly emails forever or
bi-weekly or whatever you decide to do.
So really, the report is done, that's
your upfront work, piece of work done.
Then we're gonna put together a short
email course that only ever needs to be
done once, all right?
And then when people sign up, they're
gonna get those over a series of weeks.
So once you've done all of that,
then really, your kind of week to
week marketing is literally just
doing those ongoing newsletters.
All right, that's it.
So right now,
I'm not targeting a new audience,
I'm not targeting anybody different.
So my marketing activities consists of
writing an email once every two weeks,
right?
So you can see how it
does become lightweight.
Yes, you need to block up some time to put
everything in place to begin with, but
once you've got it there,
then it's a very lightweight process.
So first of all, we need to design
a landing page that encourages permission.
So this is the point where
people can get the report, and
they can then go on and sign up for
the email course and the ongoing emails.
So what are the objectives
of this landing page?
It needs to establish your credibility.
So why do I want emails from this person?
Why do I care about what they do?
We need to create a desire for
the course and the report.
We need to say,
show people why that is worth having.
We want to encourage people to sign up
fairly obviously to the mailing list and
at all stages.
And it is not about selling your services,
right?
This is not the place to promote yourself,
which means that we probably don't want to
make this a part of our existing website,
although it can share the design, right?
So one of the questions I was
being asked over lunch was,
should I integrate this into my website?
The answer is probably no.
You can do if you really want to, but
the minute you integrate it
alongside your services and
the stuff you're selling, it's suddenly
all feels a lot more salesy, right?
And I wanna focus it just on
your giving away free advice.
So you probably don't wanna do it.
But you can reuse the design,
if you want to, that's not a problem.
So, what needs to go on this landing page?
I touched on the earlier version of
the landing page for the survey.
This one is for the report in the email,
so it's slightly different.
You provide an outline of the main topics,
the report covers, and
what the email course will cover.
And you maybe share a couple of key
findings to get people interested, you'll
be surprised to who is not nice, sounds
very clip biting, I wont say out loud.
[LAUGH] The three highest ranking
sites based on our criteria were,
find out how you ranked
that kind of thing.
Then we talk about the benefits that
are provided by getting the report
in the course.
So you get instant access to the report,
you get actionable advice on improving
your site or app or
whatever it is that you're targeting.
You get awareness of
the competitive landscape.
You'll get evidence to support
your requests of management.
You'll get insights into
areas of innovation.
So you basically show
the benefit that it provides.
And then you add a couple of
sentences about your own credibility.
And then it's really about creating
a compelling call to action.
So this is the call to action
that goes on my own website.
This is just for
my generic newsletter sign up.
It kind of has got a lot
of the key components.
I know it looks like quite
a lot of information, but
that's okay if it's done in the right way.
So what does a good call to action
need to have on your landing page?
It needs to be clear about
what people are gonna get.
So my case, my generic mailing
list is Improve Your Knowledge of
User Experience Design, Digital Marketing
and Digital Leadership, right?
And then it says you're gonna get
emails every one to two weeks.
You get a free course on
getting design approval.
A free course on building
a user centric culture.
So you can see how I'm outlining
what it is you'll get.
Now, here is an interesting one,
it maybe, this is a little bit
of a manipulative technique, and
I'm not entirely sure how I feel about it.
It popped into my head as I
was preparing this workshop,
and not something I've actively tried,
but I'm gonna share it with you anyway.
One thing you might wanna consider
doing is allowing people to actually
purchase the report if they don't
want to sign up to your email list.
Now, nobody will ever do that because
why would you if you can get it for
free from signing up for an email list?
But it means you could put
monetary value on the report,
which makes the report look more
valuable when you then get it for free.
I don't know whether
that's a bit manipulative.
I can't quite work out whether I've just
described a dark pattern or not, go on.
>> You've also given them a value,
you're getting their
information as value to you.
>> Yes, that's a good point, actually.
So, I'm not sure quite how
I feel about that, but
I thought I'd throw it out there anyway.
The other thing you might wanna do is
consider making it free for a limited
period, because that motivates people
to sign up now and rather than later.
And one of the really important things you
call to action is make sure you handle any
objections that people may have.
So for example,
people obviously are nervous about
giving over their email address.
So you wanna make it clear that
you're not gonna sell it them.
You wanna make it clear that they
can unsubscribe in one click.
And that you're never gonna share
their email address with anybody.
So you're really kind of
reassuring them in the moment.